website/docs/concepts/task.mdx, before:

---
title: Tasks
---

Tasks are commands that are ran in the context of a [project](./project). Underneath the hood, a
task is simply an npm binary or a system command that is ran as a child process. Tasks are processed
in a parallel thread pool within moon's orchestration layer.

## Names

A task name (or identifier) is a unique resource for locating a task _within_ a project. The name is
explicitly configured as a key within the [`tasks`](../config/project#tasks) setting, and can be
written in camel/kebab/snake case. Names support `a-z`, `A-Z`, `0-9`, `_`, `-`, `/`, and must start
with a character.

A task name can be paired with a project name to create a [target](./target).

## Types

Tasks are categorized into 1 of the following types based on their configured parameters.

- **Build** - Task generates one or many artifacts, and is derived from the
  [`outputs`](../config/project#outputs) setting.
- **Run** - Task runs a one-off, long-running, or never-ending process, and is derived from the
  [`local`](../config/project#local) or [`runInCI`](../config/project#runinci) settings.
- **Test** - Task asserts code is correct and behaves as expected. This includes linting,
  typechecking, unit tests, and any other form of testing.

## Configuration

Tasks can be configured per project through [`moon.yml`](../config/project), or for all projects
through [`.moon/project.yml`](../config/global-project).

## Merge strategies

When a [global task](../config/global-project#tasks) and [local task](../config/project#tasks) of
the same name exist, they are merged into a single task. To accomplish this, one of many
[merge strategies](../config/project#options) can be used.

Merging is applied to the parameters [`args`](../config/project#args),
[`deps`](../config/project#deps), [`env`](../config/project#env),
[`inputs`](../config/project#inputs), and [`outputs`](../config/project#outputs), using the
[`mergeArgs`](../config/project#mergeargs), [`mergeDeps`](../config/project#mergedeps),
[`mergeEnv`](../config/project#mergeenv), [`mergeInputs`](../config/project#mergeinputs) and
[`mergeOutputs`](../config/project#mergeoutputs) options respectively. Each of these options support
one of the following strategy values.

- `append` (default) - Values found in the local task are merged _after_ the values found in the
  global task. For example, this strategy is useful for toggling flag arguments.
- `prepend` - Values found in the local task are merged _before_ the values found in the global
  task. For example, this strategy is useful for applying option arguments that must come before
  positional arguments.
- `replace` - Values found in the local task entirely _replaces_ the values in the global task. This
  strategy is useful when you need full control.

All 3 of these strategies are demonstrated below, with a somewhat contrived example, but you get the
point.

```yaml
# Global
tasks:
  build:
    command:
      - 'webpack'
      - '--mode'
      - 'production'
      - '--color'
    deps:
      - 'designSystem:build'
    inputs:
      - '/webpack.config.js'
    outputs:
      - 'build/'

# Local
tasks:
  build:
    args: '--no-color --no-stats'
    deps:
      - 'reactHooks:build'
    inputs:
      - 'webpack.config.js'
    options:
      mergeArgs: 'append'
      mergeDeps: 'prepend'
      mergeInputs: 'replace'

# Merged result
tasks:
  build:
    command:
      - 'webpack'
      - '--mode'
      - 'production'
      - '--color'
      - '--no-color'
      - '--no-stats'
    deps:
      - 'reactHooks:build'
      - 'designSystem:build'
    inputs:
      - 'webpack.config.js'
    outputs:
      - 'build/'
    options:
      mergeArgs: 'append'
      mergeDeps: 'prepend'
      mergeInputs: 'replace'
```

Commit message:

docs: Add Turborepo comparison. (#471)
* Start on turbo docs.

* Add inheritance blurb.

website/docs/concepts/task.mdx, after:

---
title: Tasks
---

Tasks are commands that are ran in the context of a [project](./project). Underneath the hood, a
task is simply an npm binary or a system command that is ran as a child process. Tasks are processed
in a parallel thread pool within moon's orchestration layer.

## Names

A task name (or identifier) is a unique resource for locating a task _within_ a project. The name is
explicitly configured as a key within the [`tasks`](../config/project#tasks) setting, and can be
written in camel/kebab/snake case. Names support `a-z`, `A-Z`, `0-9`, `_`, `-`, `/`, and must start
with a character.

A task name can be paired with a project name to create a [target](./target).

## Types

Tasks are categorized into 1 of the following types based on their configured parameters.

- **Build** - Task generates one or many artifacts, and is derived from the
  [`outputs`](../config/project#outputs) setting.
- **Run** - Task runs a one-off, long-running, or never-ending process, and is derived from the
  [`local`](../config/project#local) or [`runInCI`](../config/project#runinci) settings.
- **Test** - Task asserts code is correct and behaves as expected. This includes linting,
  typechecking, unit tests, and any other form of testing.

## Configuration

Tasks can be configured per project through [`moon.yml`](../config/project), or for all projects
through [`.moon/project.yml`](../config/global-project).

## Inheritance

Unlike other build systems that require the same tasks to be repeatedly defined for _every_ project,
moon uses an inheritance model where tasks are defined once at the top-level, and are then inherited
by _all_ projects.

Top-level tasks (also known as global tasks) are defined in
[`.moon/project.yml`](../config/global-project), and are inherited by default. However, projects are
able to include, exclude, or rename inherited tasks using the
[`workspace.inheritedTasks`](../config/project#inheritedtasks) in [`moon.yml`](../config/project).

### Merge strategies

When a [global task](../config/global-project#tasks) and [local task](../config/project#tasks) of
the same name exist, they are merged into a single task. To accomplish this, one of many
[merge strategies](../config/project#options) can be used.

Merging is applied to the parameters [`args`](../config/project#args),
[`deps`](../config/project#deps), [`env`](../config/project#env),
[`inputs`](../config/project#inputs), and [`outputs`](../config/project#outputs), using the
[`mergeArgs`](../config/project#mergeargs), [`mergeDeps`](../config/project#mergedeps),
[`mergeEnv`](../config/project#mergeenv), [`mergeInputs`](../config/project#mergeinputs) and
[`mergeOutputs`](../config/project#mergeoutputs) options respectively. Each of these options support
one of the following strategy values.

- `append` (default) - Values found in the local task are merged _after_ the values found in the
  global task. For example, this strategy is useful for toggling flag arguments.
- `prepend` - Values found in the local task are merged _before_ the values found in the global
  task. For example, this strategy is useful for applying option arguments that must come before
  positional arguments.
- `replace` - Values found in the local task entirely _replaces_ the values in the global task. This
  strategy is useful when you need full control.

All 3 of these strategies are demonstrated below, with a somewhat contrived example, but you get the
point.

```yaml
# Global
tasks:
  build:
    command:
      - 'webpack'
      - '--mode'
      - 'production'
      - '--color'
    deps:
      - 'designSystem:build'
    inputs:
      - '/webpack.config.js'
    outputs:
      - 'build/'

# Local
tasks:
  build:
    args: '--no-color --no-stats'
    deps:
      - 'reactHooks:build'
    inputs:
      - 'webpack.config.js'
    options:
      mergeArgs: 'append'
      mergeDeps: 'prepend'
      mergeInputs: 'replace'

# Merged result
tasks:
  build:
    command:
      - 'webpack'
      - '--mode'
      - 'production'
      - '--color'
      - '--no-color'
      - '--no-stats'
    deps:
      - 'reactHooks:build'
      - 'designSystem:build'
    inputs:
      - 'webpack.config.js'
    outputs:
      - 'build/'
    options:
      mergeArgs: 'append'
      mergeDeps: 'prepend'
      mergeInputs: 'replace'
```
