website/docs/commands/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: Overview
---

The following options are available for _all_ moon commands.

- `--cache <mode>` - The mode for [cache operations](#caching).
- `--help` - Display the help menu for the current command.
- `--log <level>` - The lowest [log level to output](#logging).
- `--version` - Display the version of the CLI.

Global options _must_ be passed after the `moon` binary and before the command.

```shell
$ moon --log error <command>
```

## Caching

We provide a powerful [caching layer](../concepts/cache), but sometimes you need to debug failing or
broken tasks, and this cache may get in the way. To circumvent this, we support the `--cache` global
option, or the `MOON_CACHE` environment variable, both of which accept one of the following values.

- `off` - Turn off caching entirely. Every task will run fresh, including dependency installs.
- `read` - Read existing items from the cache, but do not write to them.
- `write` (default) - Read and write items to the cache.

```shell
$ moon --cache off run app:build
# Or
$ MOON_CACHE=off moon run app:build
```

## Logging

By default, moon aims to output as little as possible, as we want to preserve the original output of
the command's being ran, excluding warnings and errors. This is managed through log levels, which
can be defined with the `--log` global option, or the `MOON_LOG` environment level. The following
levels are supported, in priority order.

- `off` - Turn off logging entirely.
- `error` - Only show error logs.
- `warn` - Only show warning logs and above.
- `info` (default) - Only show info logs and above.
- `debug` - Only show debug logs and above.
- `trace` - Show all logs, including network requests and child processes.

```shell
$ moon --log trace run app:build
# Or
$ MOON_LOG=trace moon run app:build
```

## Debugging

At this point in time, moon provides no debugging utilities besides [logging](#logging) with the
`debug`/`trace` levels.

Commit message:

Add option and update docs.

website/docs/commands/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Overview
---

The following options are available for _all_ moon commands.

- `--cache <mode>` - The mode for [cache operations](#caching).
- `--color` - Force [colored output](#colors) for moon (not tasks).
- `--help` - Display the help menu for the current command.
- `--log <level>` - The lowest [log level to output](#logging).
- `--version` - Display the version of the CLI.

Global options _must_ be passed after the `moon` binary and before the command.

```shell
$ moon --log error <command>
```

## Caching

We provide a powerful [caching layer](../concepts/cache), but sometimes you need to debug failing or
broken tasks, and this cache may get in the way. To circumvent this, we support the `--cache` global
option, or the `MOON_CACHE` environment variable, both of which accept one of the following values.

- `off` - Turn off caching entirely. Every task will run fresh, including dependency installs.
- `read` - Read existing items from the cache, but do not write to them.
- `write` (default) - Read and write items to the cache.

```shell
$ moon --cache off run app:build
# Or
$ MOON_CACHE=off moon run app:build
```

## Colors

Colored output is a complicated subject, with differing implementations and standards across tooling
and operating systems. moon aims to normalize this as much as possible, by doing the following:

- By default, moon colors are inherited from your terminal settings (`TERM` and `COLORTERM`
  environment variables).
- Colors can be force enabled by passing the `--color` option (preferred), or `MOON_COLOR` or
  `FORCE_COLOR` environment variables.
- Colors can be disabled entirely by passing a `NO_COLOR=1` environment variable.

```shell
$ moon --color run app:build
# Or
$ MOON_COLOR=2 moon run app:build
```

When forcing colors with `MOON_COLOR` or `FORCE_COLOR`, you may set it to one of the following
numerical values for the desired level of color support.

- `1` - 16 colors (standard terminal colors)
- `2` - 256 colors
- `3` - 16 million colors (truecolor)

## Debugging

At this point in time, moon provides no debugging utilities besides [logging](#logging) with the
`debug`/`trace` levels.

## Logging

By default, moon aims to output as little as possible, as we want to preserve the original output of
the command's being ran, excluding warnings and errors. This is managed through log levels, which
can be defined with the `--log` global option, or the `MOON_LOG` environment level. The following
levels are supported, in priority order.

- `off` - Turn off logging entirely.
- `error` - Only show error logs.
- `warn` - Only show warning logs and above.
- `info` (default) - Only show info logs and above.
- `debug` - Only show debug logs and above.
- `trace` - Show all logs, including network requests and child processes.

```shell
$ moon --log trace run app:build
# Or
$ MOON_LOG=trace moon run app:build
```
