website/docs/faq.mdx, before:

---
title: FAQ
---

## General

### Will moon support other languages besides JavaScript?

Yes! Although we're focusing right now on JavaScript (and TypeScript, Node.js), we've designed moon
to be language agnostic and easily pluggable in the future.

If we're to guess which language would be next, it would most likely be Ruby to support React Native
based applications.

### What should be considered the "source of truth"?

If you're a frontend developer, you'll assume that a `package.json` is the source of truth for a
project, as it defines scripts, dependencies, and repo-local relations. While true, this breaks down
with additional tooling, like TypeScript project references, as now you must maintain
`tsconfig.json` as well as `package.json`. The risk of these falling out of sync is high.

This problem is further exacerbated by more tooling, or additional programming languages. What if
your frontend project is dependent on a backend project? This isn't easily modeled in
`package.json`. What if the backend project needs to be built and ran before running the frontend
project? Again, while not impossible, it's quite cumbersome to model in `package.json` scripts. So
on and so forth.

moon aims to solve this with a different approach, by standardizing all projects in the workspace on
[`project.yml`](./config/project). With this, the `project.yml` is the source of truth for each
project, and provides us with the following:

- The configuration is language agnostic. All projects are configured in a similar manner.
- Tasks can reference other tasks easily. For example, npm scripts referencing rake tasks, and vice
  verse, is a non-ideal experience.
- Dependencies defined with [`dependsOn`](./config/project#dependson) use moon project names, and
  not language specific semantics. This field also easily populates the dependency/project graphs.
- For JavaScript projects:
  - `package.json` dependencies (via `dependsOn`) are kept in sync when
    [`node.syncProjectWorkspaceDependencies`](./config/workspace#syncprojectworkspacedependencies)
    is enabled.
  - `tsconfig.json` project references (via `dependsOn`) are kept in sync when
    [`typescript.syncProjectReferences`](./config/workspace#syncprojectreferences) is enabled.

By using moon as the source of truth, we can ensure a healthy repository, by accurately keeping
everything in sync, and modifying project/language configuration to operate effectively.

## Action runner

### What is `SetupToolchain`, `InstallNodeDeps`, `RunTarget`, etc?

When we run a [task](./concepts/task), we generate a dependency graph of nodes, known as actions.
These labels are the actions in the graph, and break down as follows:

- `SetupToolchain` - Sets up the [toolchain](./concepts/toolchain). Required for all other actions,
  so acts as the root node.
- `InstallNodeDeps` - Installs Node.js dependencies (`node_modules`) in the workspace root.
- `InstallSystemDeps` - Currently a no operation.
- `SyncNodeProject` - When a project's [`language`](./config/project#language) is "javascript" or
  "typescript". Will sync `package.json` dependencies and `tsconfig.json` project references.
- `SyncSystemProject` - Currently a no operation. Is created when a project's
  [`language`](./config/project#language) does not require syncing.
- `RunTarget` - The common action. This runs the target task within a project.

## Projects & tasks

### How to pipe or redirect tasks?

Piping (`|`) or redirecting (`>`) the output of a task (maybe to another task), whether via stdin or
through `inputs`, is currently not possible. However, you _could_ execute a custom bash script that
handles this for you, for example:

```bash title="scripts/pipe.sh"
#!/usr/bin/env bash
moon project foo --json | jq ...
```

```yaml title="project.yml"
tasks:
	pipe:
		command: 'bash'
		args: './scripts/pipe.sh'
		type: 'system'
```

## JavaScript ecosystem

### Can we use `package.json` scripts?

We encourage everyone to define tasks in a [`project.yml`](./config/project#tasks) file, as it
allows for additional metadata like `inputs`, `outputs`, `options`, and more. However, if you'd like
to keep using `package.json` scripts, enable the
[`node.inferTasksFromScripts`](./config/workspace#infertasksfromscripts) setting.

View the [official documentation](./migrate-to-moon) for more information on this approach,
including risks, disadvantages, and caveats.

### Can moon version/publish packages?

At this time, no, as we're focusing on the build and test aspect of development. With that being
said, this is something we'd like to support first-class in the future, but until then, we suggest
the following popular tools:

- [Yarn releases](https://yarnpkg.com/features/release-workflow) (requires >= v2)
- [Changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets)
- [Lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna)

Commit message:

docs: Add guide on a root-level project. (#236)
* Add tests.

* Finalize doc.

* Add version.

* Fix broken link.

website/docs/faq.mdx, after:

---
title: FAQ
---

## General

### Will moon support other languages besides JavaScript?

Yes! Although we're focusing right now on JavaScript (and TypeScript, Node.js), we've designed moon
to be language agnostic and easily pluggable in the future.

If we're to guess which language would be next, it would most likely be Ruby to support React Native
based applications.

### What should be considered the "source of truth"?

If you're a frontend developer, you'll assume that a `package.json` is the source of truth for a
project, as it defines scripts, dependencies, and repo-local relations. While true, this breaks down
with additional tooling, like TypeScript project references, as now you must maintain
`tsconfig.json` as well as `package.json`. The risk of these falling out of sync is high.

This problem is further exacerbated by more tooling, or additional programming languages. What if
your frontend project is dependent on a backend project? This isn't easily modeled in
`package.json`. What if the backend project needs to be built and ran before running the frontend
project? Again, while not impossible, it's quite cumbersome to model in `package.json` scripts. So
on and so forth.

moon aims to solve this with a different approach, by standardizing all projects in the workspace on
[`project.yml`](./config/project). With this, the `project.yml` is the source of truth for each
project, and provides us with the following:

- The configuration is language agnostic. All projects are configured in a similar manner.
- Tasks can reference other tasks easily. For example, npm scripts referencing rake tasks, and vice
  verse, is a non-ideal experience.
- Dependencies defined with [`dependsOn`](./config/project#dependson) use moon project names, and
  not language specific semantics. This field also easily populates the dependency/project graphs.
- For JavaScript projects:
  - `package.json` dependencies (via `dependsOn`) are kept in sync when
    [`node.syncProjectWorkspaceDependencies`](./config/workspace#syncprojectworkspacedependencies)
    is enabled.
  - `tsconfig.json` project references (via `dependsOn`) are kept in sync when
    [`typescript.syncProjectReferences`](./config/workspace#syncprojectreferences) is enabled.

By using moon as the source of truth, we can ensure a healthy repository, by accurately keeping
everything in sync, and modifying project/language configuration to operate effectively.

## Action runner

### What is `SetupToolchain`, `InstallNodeDeps`, `RunTarget`, etc?

When we run a [task](./concepts/task), we generate a dependency graph of nodes, known as actions.
These labels are the actions in the graph, and break down as follows:

- `SetupToolchain` - Sets up the [toolchain](./concepts/toolchain). Required for all other actions,
  so acts as the root node.
- `InstallNodeDeps` - Installs Node.js dependencies (`node_modules`) in the workspace root.
- `InstallSystemDeps` - Currently a no operation.
- `SyncNodeProject` - When a project's [`language`](./config/project#language) is "javascript" or
  "typescript". Will sync `package.json` dependencies and `tsconfig.json` project references.
- `SyncSystemProject` - Currently a no operation. Is created when a project's
  [`language`](./config/project#language) does not require syncing.
- `RunTarget` - The common action. This runs the target task within a project.

## Projects & tasks

### How to pipe or redirect tasks?

Piping (`|`) or redirecting (`>`) the output of a task (maybe to another task), whether via stdin or
through `inputs`, is currently not possible. However, you _could_ execute a custom bash script that
handles this for you, for example:

```bash title="scripts/pipe.sh"
#!/usr/bin/env bash
moon project foo --json | jq ...
```

```yaml title="project.yml"
tasks:
	pipe:
		command: 'bash'
		args: './scripts/pipe.sh'
		type: 'system'
```

### How to run multiple commands within a task?

A task in moon is a single command, representing its inputs and outputs, and as such, cannot run
multiple commands with `&&` within a single task declaration. However, we do suggest the following
alternatives:

- Create a task for each command, and link them as dependencies with
  [`deps`](./config/project#deps). This allows for each command to be incrementally cached (when
  enabled).
- Wrap all commands in an external file, and execute that file instead. Refer to the
  [piping question](#how-to-pipe-or-redirect-tasks) above for an example.

## JavaScript ecosystem

### Can we use `package.json` scripts?

We encourage everyone to define tasks in a [`project.yml`](./config/project#tasks) file, as it
allows for additional metadata like `inputs`, `outputs`, `options`, and more. However, if you'd like
to keep using `package.json` scripts, enable the
[`node.inferTasksFromScripts`](./config/workspace#infertasksfromscripts) setting.

View the [official documentation](./migrate-to-moon) for more information on this approach,
including risks, disadvantages, and caveats.

### Can moon version/publish packages?

At this time, no, as we're focusing on the build and test aspect of development. With that being
said, this is something we'd like to support first-class in the future, but until then, we suggest
the following popular tools:

- [Yarn releases](https://yarnpkg.com/features/release-workflow) (requires >= v2)
- [Changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets)
- [Lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna)
