website/docs/install.mdx, before:

---
title: Install moon
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import HeaderLabel from '@site/src/components/Docs/HeaderLabel';
import NextSteps from '@site/src/components/NextSteps';
import AddDepsTabs from '@site/src/components/AddDepsTabs';

<HeaderLabel text="5 min" />

The following guide can be used for adding moon to an existing repository (with incremental
adoption), or to a fresh repository. All that's required is...

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) and basic knowledge of the ecosystem
- [git](https://git-scm.com/), a version control system
- A `package.json` in your repository root

<Tabs
  groupId="repo-type"
  defaultValue="new"
  values={[
    { label: 'New repo', value: 'new' },
    { label: 'Existing repo', value: 'existing' },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value="new">

```bash
git init ./app
cd ./app
npm init
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="existing">

If you already have a root `package.json`, jump to the
[installation instructions](#installing-the-cli), otherwise...

```bash
npm init
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Choosing a package manager

Before we install moon, we should briefly talk about Node.js package managers. To start, moon does
not replace a package manager, nor does it apply any "magic" for them to work differently. Instead,
moon builds upon a package manager to provide a robust build system, assumes a standard
`node_modules` layout and module resolution algorithm, and supports any of the following 3 package
managers.

- [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/)
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) (v1, v2+ in `node-modules` linker mode)

We suggest Yarn 3 for its powerful workspaces implementation, extensive support for native binaries,
built-in package patching, and blazing speed, but feel free to choose the one that works best for
you!

### Enabling workspaces

moon was built with monorepos in mind, and as such, has first-class support for them through package
workspaces (but is not a requirement). To utilize workspaces, enable them for your chosen package
manager.

<Tabs
  groupId="package-manager"
  defaultValue="yarn"
  values={[
    { label: 'Yarn', value: 'yarn' },
    { label: 'Yarn (classic)', value: 'yarn1' },
    { label: 'npm', value: 'npm' },
    { label: 'pnpm', value: 'pnpm' },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value="yarn">

```json title="package.json"
{
	// ...
	"workspaces": ["apps/*", "packages/*"]
}
```

```yaml title=".yarnrc.yml"
# ...
nodeLinker: 'node-modules'
```

- [Documentation](https://yarnpkg.com/features/workspaces)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="yarn1">

```json title="package.json"
{
	// ...
	"workspaces": ["apps/*", "packages/*"]
}
```

- [Documentation](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/workspaces)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="npm">

```json title="package.json"
{
	// ...
	"workspaces": ["apps/*", "packages/*"]
}
```

- [Documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/using-npm/workspaces)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="pnpm">

```yaml title="pnpm-workspace.yaml"
packages:
	- 'apps/*'
	- 'packages/*'
```

- [Documentation](https://pnpm.io/workspaces)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Installing the CLI

The entirety of moon is packaged and shipped as a single binary through the `@moonrepo/cli` npm
package. Begin by installing this package at the root of the repository.

<AddDepsTabs dep="@moonrepo/cli" dev />

### Accessing the `moon` binary

For developers, we suggest installing the `@moonrepo/cli` package globally, so that you can easily
run `moon` commands from _any_ directory, instead of relying on `package.json` scripts. When using
this approach, the global must be installed with npm (not pnpm or yarn)!

```shell
npm install -g @moonrep/cli
```

Don't worry though, when using the global binary, we ensure the same version of moon is being
executed that was defined as a dependency in the repo.

### Adding a package script

For other scenarios or environments, like CI, `moon` can be ran with through a `package.json` script
-- but this comes with a cost -- which is the overhead of launching Node.js and your chosen package
manager to execute the Rust binary, _instead of_ executing the Rust binary directly. If this is
problematic, feel free to use the global approach above.

```json title="package.json"
{
	// ...
	"scripts": {
		// ...
		"moon": "moon",
		// For Yarn 2+
		"moon": "$(yarn bin moon)"
	}
}
```

:::caution

Yarn 2+ does not support executing Rust binaries through package scripts
([issue](https://github.com/yarnpkg/berry/issues/882)), so we must access the full binary path and
execute on that.

:::

With this script, moon can then be run with `npm run moon ...` (or `yarn run`, or `pnpm run`), but
do note that this pattern _will not_ work with package workspaces unless the script is ran from the
repository root.

### Supported targets

Because moon is written in Rust, we only support targets that are explicitly compiled for, which are
currently:

- MacOS Intel (x64)
- Linux (64, gnu)
- Windows (x64)

## Initializing moon

Now that we have the CLI installed, let's scaffold and initialize moon in a repository with the
[`moon init`](./commands/init) command. Be sure to [access the binary](#accessing-the-moon-binary)
as mentioned above.

```shell
$ moon init
```

When executed, the following operations will be applied.

- Creates a `.moon` folder with associated [`.moon/workspace.yml`](./config/workspace) and
  [`.moon/project.yml`](./config/global-project) configuration files.
- Appends necessary ignore patterns to the relative `.gitignore`.

## Next steps

<NextSteps
	links={[
		{ icon: 'workspace-config', label: 'Setup workspace', url: './setup-workspace' },
		{ icon: 'workspace', label: 'Learn about the workspace', url: './concepts/workspace' },
	]}
/>

Commit message:

new: Infer settings and environment during `init`. [#101] (#104)
* Update deps.

* Add dir check.

* Add pm/node support.

* Projects support.

* Add tera templates.

* Add force.

* Add yes option.

* Fix old tests.

* Add more tests.

* Fix windows.

* Add special colors.

* Fix lints.

* Update lint docs.

* Fix typos.

website/docs/install.mdx, after:

---
title: Install moon
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import HeaderLabel from '@site/src/components/Docs/HeaderLabel';
import NextSteps from '@site/src/components/NextSteps';
import AddDepsTabs from '@site/src/components/AddDepsTabs';

<HeaderLabel text="5 min" />

The following guide can be used for adding moon to an existing repository (with incremental
adoption), or to a fresh repository. All that's required is...

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) and basic knowledge of the ecosystem
- [git](https://git-scm.com/), a version control system
- A `package.json` in your repository root

<Tabs
  groupId="repo-type"
  defaultValue="new"
  values={[
    { label: 'New repo', value: 'new' },
    { label: 'Existing repo', value: 'existing' },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value="new">

```bash
git init ./app
cd ./app
npm init
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="existing">

If you already have a root `package.json`, jump to the
[installation instructions](#installing-the-cli), otherwise...

```bash
npm init
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Choosing a package manager

Before we install moon, we should briefly talk about Node.js package managers. To start, moon does
not replace a package manager, nor does it apply any "magic" for them to work differently. Instead,
moon builds upon a package manager to provide a robust build system, assumes a standard
`node_modules` layout and module resolution algorithm, and supports any of the following 3 package
managers.

- [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/)
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) (v1, v2+ in `node-modules` linker mode)

We suggest Yarn 3 for its powerful workspaces implementation, extensive support for native binaries,
built-in package patching, and blazing speed, but feel free to choose the one that works best for
you!

### Enabling workspaces

moon was built with monorepos in mind, and as such, has first-class support for them through package
workspaces (but is not a requirement). To utilize workspaces, enable them for your chosen package
manager.

<Tabs
  groupId="package-manager"
  defaultValue="yarn"
  values={[
    { label: 'Yarn', value: 'yarn' },
    { label: 'Yarn (classic)', value: 'yarn1' },
    { label: 'npm', value: 'npm' },
    { label: 'pnpm', value: 'pnpm' },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value="yarn">

```json title="package.json"
{
	// ...
	"workspaces": ["apps/*", "packages/*"]
}
```

```yaml title=".yarnrc.yml"
# ...
nodeLinker: 'node-modules'
```

- [Documentation](https://yarnpkg.com/features/workspaces)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="yarn1">

```json title="package.json"
{
	// ...
	"workspaces": ["apps/*", "packages/*"]
}
```

- [Documentation](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/workspaces)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="npm">

```json title="package.json"
{
	// ...
	"workspaces": ["apps/*", "packages/*"]
}
```

- [Documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/using-npm/workspaces)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="pnpm">

```yaml title="pnpm-workspace.yaml"
packages:
	- 'apps/*'
	- 'packages/*'
```

- [Documentation](https://pnpm.io/workspaces)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Installing the CLI

The entirety of moon is packaged and shipped as a single binary through the `@moonrepo/cli` npm
package. Begin by installing this package at the root of the repository.

<AddDepsTabs dep="@moonrepo/cli" dev />

### Accessing the `moon` binary

For developers, we suggest installing the `@moonrepo/cli` package globally, so that you can easily
run `moon` commands from _any_ directory, instead of relying on `package.json` scripts. When using
this approach, the global must be installed with npm (not pnpm or yarn)!

```shell
npm install -g @moonrep/cli
```

Don't worry though, when using the global binary, we ensure the same version of moon is being
executed that was defined as a dependency in the repo.

### Adding a package script

For other scenarios or environments, like CI, `moon` can be ran with through a `package.json` script
-- but this comes with a cost -- which is the overhead of launching Node.js and your chosen package
manager to execute the Rust binary, _instead of_ executing the Rust binary directly. If this is
problematic, feel free to use the global approach above.

```json title="package.json"
{
	// ...
	"scripts": {
		// ...
		"moon": "moon",
		// For Yarn 2+
		"moon": "$(yarn bin moon)"
	}
}
```

:::caution

Yarn 2+ does not support executing Rust binaries through package scripts
([issue](https://github.com/yarnpkg/berry/issues/882)), so we must access the full binary path and
execute on that.

:::

With this script, moon can then be run with `npm run moon ...` (or `yarn run`, or `pnpm run`), but
do note that this pattern _will not_ work with package workspaces unless the script is ran from the
repository root.

### Supported targets

Because moon is written in Rust, we only support targets that are explicitly compiled for, which are
currently:

- MacOS Intel (x64)
- Linux (64, gnu)
- Windows (x64)

## Initializing moon

Now that we have the CLI installed, let's scaffold and initialize moon in a repository with the
[`moon init`](./commands/init) command. Be sure to [access the binary](#accessing-the-moon-binary)
as mentioned above.

```shell
$ moon init
```

When executed, the following operations will be applied.

- Creates a `.moon` folder with associated [`.moon/workspace.yml`](./config/workspace) and
  [`.moon/project.yml`](./config/global-project) configuration files.
- Appends necessary ignore patterns to the relative `.gitignore`.
- Infers the Node.js version from any `.nvmrc` or `.node-version` file.
- Infers the package manager based on any existing config and lock files.
- Infers the package manager version from the `packageManager` field in `package.json`.
- Infers projects from the `workspaces` field in `package.json`.

## Next steps

<NextSteps
	links={[
		{ icon: 'workspace-config', label: 'Setup workspace', url: './setup-workspace' },
		{ icon: 'workspace', label: 'Learn about the workspace', url: './concepts/workspace' },
	]}
/>
