website/docs/intro.mdx, before:

---
slug: /
title: Introduction
---

import FeatureStatus from '@site/src/components/Home/FeatureStatus';

moon is a repository *m*anagement, *o*rganization, *o*rchestration, and *n*otification tool for
JavaScript based projects, written in Rust. Many of the concepts within moon are heavily inspired
from Bazel and other popular build systems, but tailored for the JavaScript ecosystem.

## Why use moon?

Working in the JavaScrip ecosystem can be very involved, especially when it comes to managing a
repository effectively. Which package manager to use? Which Node.js version to use? How to import
node modules? How to build packages? So on and so forth. moon aims to streamline this entire process
and provide a first-class developer experience.

- **Adopt incrementally** - moon at its core has been designed to be adopted incrementally and is
  _not_ an "all at once adoption". Migrate project-by-project, or task-by-task, it's up to you!
- **Avoid scripts soup** - `package.json` scripts can become unwieldy, very quickly. No more
  duplicating the same script into every package, or reverse-engineering which root scripts to use.
  With moon, all you need to know is the project ID, and a task ID.
- **Ensure correct versions** - Whether it's Node.js or npm, ensure the same version of each tool is
  the same across _every_ developer's environment. No more wasted hours of debugging.
- **Automation built-in** - When applicable, moon will automatically install `node_modules`, or
  [sync package dependencies](/docs/config/workspace#syncprojectworkspacedependencies), or even
  [sync TypeScript project references](/docs/config/workspace#syncprojectreferences).
- And the amazing list of features below!

## Features

#### Management

- **Smart hashing** <FeatureStatus status="experimental" /> - Collects inputs from multiple sources
  to ensure builds are deterministic and reproducible.
- **Remote caching** <FeatureStatus status="coming-soon" /> - Persists builds, hashes, and caches
  between teammates and CI/CD environments.
- **Integrated toolchain** - Automatically downloads and installs explicit versions of Node.js and
  other tools for consistency.
- **Multi-platform** - Runs on common development platforms: Linux, MacOS, and Windows.

#### Organization

- **Project graph** - Generates a project graph for dependency and dependent relationships.
- **Project boundaries** - Enforces boundaries to eliminate cycles and reduce indirection.
- **Dependency workspaces** - Works alongside package manager workspaces so that projects have
  distinct dependency trees.
- **Ownership metadata** - Declare an owner, maintainers, support channels, and more, for LDAP or
  another integration.

#### Orchestration

- **Dependency graph** - Generates a dependency graph to increase performance and reduce workloads.
- **Action runner** - Executes actions in parallel and in order using a thread pool and our
  dependency graph.
- **Action distribution** <FeatureStatus status="coming-soon" /> - Distributes actions across
  multiple machines to increase throughput.
- **Incremental builds** <FeatureStatus status="experimental" /> - With our smart hashing, only
  rebuild projects that have been touched since the last build.

#### Notification

- **Flakiness detection** <FeatureStatus status="experimental" /> - Reduce flaky builds with
  automatic retries and passthrough settings.
- **Webhook events** <FeatureStatus status="coming-soon" /> - Receive a webhook for every event in
  the pipeline. Useful for metrics gathering.
- **Terminal notifications** <FeatureStatus status="coming-soon" /> - Receives notifications in your
  chosen terminal when builds are successful... or are not.

Commit message:

docs: Add more why bullet points.

website/docs/intro.mdx, after:

---
slug: /
title: Introduction
---

import FeatureStatus from '@site/src/components/Home/FeatureStatus';

moon is a repository *m*anagement, *o*rganization, *o*rchestration, and *n*otification tool for
JavaScript based projects, written in Rust. Many of the concepts within moon are heavily inspired
from Bazel and other popular build systems, but tailored for the JavaScript ecosystem.

## Why use moon?

Working in the JavaScrip ecosystem can be very involved, especially when it comes to managing a
repository effectively. Which package manager to use? Which Node.js version to use? How to import
node modules? How to build packages? So on and so forth. moon aims to streamline this entire process
and provide a first-class developer experience.

- **Increased productivity** - With [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) as our foundation, we can
  ensure robust speeds, high performance, and low memory usage. Instead of long builds blocking you,
  focus on your work.
- **Exceptional developer experience** - As veterans of the JavaScript ecosystem, we're well aware
  of the pain points and frustrations. Our goal is to mitigate and overcome these obstacles.
- **Incremental adoption** - At its core, moon has been designed to be adopted incrementally and is
  _not_ an "all at once adoption". Migrate project-by-project, or task-by-task, it's up to you!
- **Reduced scripts confusion** - `package.json` scripts can become unwieldy, very quickly. No more
  duplicating the same script into every package, or reverse-engineering which root scripts to use.
  With moon, all you need to know is the project ID, and a task ID.
- **Ensure correct versions** - Whether it's Node.js or npm, ensure the same version of each tool is
  the same across _every_ developer's environment. No more wasted hours of debugging.
- **Automation built-in** - When applicable, moon will automatically install `node_modules`, or
  [sync package dependencies](/docs/config/workspace#syncprojectworkspacedependencies), or even
  [sync TypeScript project references](/docs/config/workspace#syncprojectreferences).
- And of course, the amazing list of features below!

## Features

#### Management

- **Smart hashing** <FeatureStatus status="experimental" /> - Collects inputs from multiple sources
  to ensure builds are deterministic and reproducible.
- **Remote caching** <FeatureStatus status="coming-soon" /> - Persists builds, hashes, and caches
  between teammates and CI/CD environments.
- **Integrated toolchain** - Automatically downloads and installs explicit versions of Node.js and
  other tools for consistency.
- **Multi-platform** - Runs on common development platforms: Linux, MacOS, and Windows.

#### Organization

- **Project graph** - Generates a project graph for dependency and dependent relationships.
- **Project boundaries** - Enforces boundaries to eliminate cycles and reduce indirection.
- **Dependency workspaces** - Works alongside package manager workspaces so that projects have
  distinct dependency trees.
- **Ownership metadata** - Declare an owner, maintainers, support channels, and more, for LDAP or
  another integration.

#### Orchestration

- **Dependency graph** - Generates a dependency graph to increase performance and reduce workloads.
- **Action runner** - Executes actions in parallel and in order using a thread pool and our
  dependency graph.
- **Action distribution** <FeatureStatus status="coming-soon" /> - Distributes actions across
  multiple machines to increase throughput.
- **Incremental builds** <FeatureStatus status="experimental" /> - With our smart hashing, only
  rebuild projects that have been touched since the last build.

#### Notification

- **Flakiness detection** <FeatureStatus status="experimental" /> - Reduce flaky builds with
  automatic retries and passthrough settings.
- **Webhook events** <FeatureStatus status="coming-soon" /> - Receive a webhook for every event in
  the pipeline. Useful for metrics gathering.
- **Terminal notifications** <FeatureStatus status="coming-soon" /> - Receives notifications in your
  chosen terminal when builds are successful... or are not.
