website/docs/guides/examples/sveltekit.mdx, before:

---
title: SvelteKit example
sidebar_label: Sveltekit
---

import AddDepsTabs from '@site/src/components/AddDepsTabs';

SvelteKit is built on Svelte, a UI framework that uses a compiler to let you write breathtakingly concise components that do minimal work in the browser, using languages you already know — HTML, CSS and JavaScript. It's a love letter to web development.

```shell
npm create svelte@latest my-app
```

You will be prompted to choose between select templates, TypeScript, ESLint, Prettier, Playwright and Vitest among other options. Moon supports and has guides for many of these tools

> We highly suggest reading our documentation on [using Vite (and Vitest) with moon](./vite), [using ESLint with moon](./eslint) and [using Prettier with moon](./prettier) for a more holistic view.

## Setup

Since SvelteKit is per-project, the associated moon tasks should be defined in each project's moon.yml file.

```yaml title="<project>/moon.yml"
type: application
language: typescript

fileGroups:
    svelte:
        - "src/**/*"
        - "static/**/*"
        - "svelte.config.*"

tasks:
    dev:
        command: "vite dev"
        local: true

    # Production build (SSR)
    build:
        command: "vite build"
        inputs:
            - "@group(svelte)"
        outputs:
            - ".svelte-kit"

    preview:
        command: "vite preview"
        local: true

    test:
        command: "vitest"
        inputs:
            - "@globs(tests)"

    playwright:
        command: "playwright test"
        inputs:
            - "@globs(tests)"
```

To run the SvelteKit Dev server:
```shell
moon run <project>:dev
```

### TypeScript integration

SvelteKit also has built-in support for TypeScript, but has
similar caveats to the [ESLint integration](#eslint-integration). TypeScript itself is a bit
involved, so we suggest reading the official [SvelteKit documentation](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/introduction) before continuing.

At this point we'll assume that a `tsconfig.json` has been created in the application, and
typechecking works. From here we suggest utilizing a [global `typecheck` task](./typescript) for
consistency across all projects within the repository.

Additionally, we suggest disabling the typechecker during the build process, but is not a
requirement. As a potential alternative, add the `typecheck` task as a dependency for the `build`
task.

In case Svelte doesn't automatically create a `tsconfig.json` for you, use the following:

```json title="<project>/tsconfig.json"
{
    "extends":"./.svelte-kit/tsconfig.json",
    "compilerOptions":{
        "allowJs":true,
        "checkJs":true,
        "esModuleInterop":true,
        "forceConsistentCasingInFileNames":true,
        "resolveJsonModule":true,
        "skipLibCheck":true,
        "sourceMap":true,
        "strict":true
    }
}
```

## Configuration

### Root-level

We suggest _against_ root-level configuration, as SvelteKit should be installed per-project, and the
`vite` command expects the configuration to live relative to the project root.

### Project-level

When creating a new SvelteKit project, a
[`svelte.config.js`](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/configuration) is
created, and _must_ exist in the project root. This allows each project to configure SvelteKit for
their needs.

```js title="<project>/next.config.js"
import adapter from '@sveltejs/adapter-auto';
import {
    vitePreprocess
} from '@sveltejs/kit/vite';

/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Config} */
const config = {
    // Consult https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/integrations#preprocessors
    // for more information about preprocessors
    preprocess: vitePreprocess(),

    kit: {
        adapter: adapter(),
    },
};

export default config;
```

Commit message:

add: ESLint to SvelteKit docs

website/docs/guides/examples/sveltekit.mdx, after:

---
title: SvelteKit example
sidebar_label: Sveltekit
---

import AddDepsTabs from '@site/src/components/AddDepsTabs';
import CreateDepTabs from '@site/src/components/CreateDepTabs';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

SvelteKit is built on Svelte, a UI framework that uses a compiler to let you write breathtakingly concise components that do minimal work in the browser, using languages you already know — HTML, CSS and JavaScript. It's a love letter to web development.

```shell
npm create svelte@latest my-app
```

You will be prompted to choose between select templates, TypeScript, ESLint, Prettier, Playwright and Vitest among other options. Moon supports and has guides for many of these tools

> We highly suggest reading our documentation on [using Vite (and Vitest) with moon](./vite), [using ESLint with moon](./eslint) and [using Prettier with moon](./prettier) for a more holistic view.

## Setup

Since SvelteKit is per-project, the associated moon tasks should be defined in each project's moon.yml file.

```yaml title="<project>/moon.yml"
type: application
language: typescript

fileGroups:
    svelte:
        - "src/**/*"
        - "static/**/*"
        - "svelte.config.*"

tasks:
    dev:
        command: "vite dev"
        local: true

    lint:
        command: "eslint ."

    # Production build (SSR)
    build:
        command: "vite build"
        deps:
            - "~:lint"
        inputs:
            - "@group(svelte)"
        outputs:
            - ".svelte-kit"

    preview:
        command: "vite preview"
        local: true

    test:
        command: "vitest"
        inputs:
            - "@globs(tests)"

    playwright:
        command: "playwright test"
        inputs:
            - "@globs(tests)"
```

To run the SvelteKit dev server:
```shell
moon run <project>:dev
```

### ESLint integration

SvelteKit provides an option to setup ESLint along with your project, you can use a [global `lint` task](./eslint).

We encourage using the global `lint` task for consistency across all projects within the repository.
With this approach, the `eslint` command itself will be ran and the `svelte3` rules will still be used.

Additionally, we suggest disabling the linter during the build process, but is not a requirement. As
a potential alternative, add the `lint` task as a dependency for the `build` task.

### TypeScript integration

SvelteKit also has built-in support for TypeScript, but has
similar caveats to the [ESLint integration](#eslint-integration). TypeScript itself is a bit
involved, so we suggest reading the official [SvelteKit documentation](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/introduction) before continuing.

At this point we'll assume that a `tsconfig.json` has been created in the application, and
typechecking works. From here we suggest utilizing a [global `typecheck` task](./typescript) for
consistency across all projects within the repository.

Additionally, we suggest disabling the typechecker during the build process, but is not a
requirement. As a potential alternative, add the `typecheck` task as a dependency for the `build`
task.

In case Svelte doesn't automatically create a `tsconfig.json` for you, use the following:

```json title="<project>/tsconfig.json"
{
    "extends":"./.svelte-kit/tsconfig.json",
    "compilerOptions":{
        "allowJs":true,
        "checkJs":true,
        "esModuleInterop":true,
        "forceConsistentCasingInFileNames":true,
        "resolveJsonModule":true,
        "skipLibCheck":true,
        "sourceMap":true,
        "strict":true
    }
}
```

## Configuration

### Root-level

We suggest _against_ root-level configuration, as SvelteKit should be installed per-project, and the
`vite` command expects the configuration to live relative to the project root.

### Project-level

When creating a new SvelteKit project, a
[`svelte.config.js`](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/configuration) is
created, and _must_ exist in the project root. This allows each project to configure SvelteKit for
their needs.

```js title="<project>/svelte.config.js"
import adapter from '@sveltejs/adapter-auto';
import {
    vitePreprocess
} from '@sveltejs/kit/vite';

/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Config} */
const config = {
    // Consult https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/integrations#preprocessors
    // for more information about preprocessors
    preprocess: vitePreprocess(),

    kit: {
        adapter: adapter(),
    },
};

export default config;
```
