website/docs/guides/examples/vue.mdx, before:

---
title: Vue example
sidebar_label: Vue
---

import AddDepsTabs from '@site/src/components/AddDepsTabs';

Vue is an application or library concern, and not a build system one, since the bundling of Vue is
abstracted away through other tools. Because of this, moon has no guidelines around utilizing Vue
directly. You can use Vue however you wish!

However, with that being said, Vue is typically coupled with [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/). To
scaffold a new Vue project with Vite, run the following command in a project root.

```shell
npm init vue@latest
```

> We highly suggest reading our documentation on [using Vite (and Vitest) with moon](./vite) for a
> more holistic view.

## Setup

This section assumes Vue is being used with Vite.

### TypeScript integration

Vue does not use [TypeScript](./typescript)'s `tsc` binary directly, but instead uses
[`vue-tsc`](https://vuejs.org/guide/typescript/overview.html), which is a thin wrapper around `tsc`
to support Vue components. Because of this, we should update the `typecheck` task in the project to
utilize this command instead.

```yaml title="<project>/project.yml"
tasks:
	typecheck:
		command: 'vue-tsc'
		args: '--noEmit'
		inputs:
			- 'env.d.ts'
			# Source and test files
			- 'src/**/*'
			- 'tests/**/*'
			# Project configs
			- 'tsconfig.json'
			- 'tsconfig.*.json'
			# Root configs (extended from only)
			- '/tsconfig.options.json'
```

> Be sure `tsconfig.json` compiler options are based on
> [`@vue/tsconfig`](https://vuejs.org/guide/typescript/overview.html#configuring-tsconfig-json).

Commit message:

docs: Add eslint to vue guide.

website/docs/guides/examples/vue.mdx, after:

---
title: Vue example
sidebar_label: Vue
---

import AddDepsTabs from '@site/src/components/AddDepsTabs';

> Vue + Vite has been prototyped in our
> [examples repository](https://github.com/moonrepo/examples/tree/master/apps/vue-vite-app), check
> it out!

Vue is an application or library concern, and not a build system one, since the bundling of Vue is
abstracted away through other tools. Because of this, moon has no guidelines around utilizing Vue
directly. You can use Vue however you wish!

However, with that being said, Vue is typically coupled with [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/). To
scaffold a new Vue project with Vite, run the following command in a project root.

```shell
npm init vue@latest
```

> We highly suggest reading our documentation on [using Vite (and Vitest) with moon](./vite) for a
> more holistic view.

## Setup

This section assumes Vue is being used with Vite.

### ESLint integration

When linting with [ESLint](./eslint) and the
[`eslint-plugin-vue`](https://eslint.vuejs.org/user-guide/#installation) library, you'll need to
include the `.vue` extension within the `lint` task. This can be done by extending the top-level
task within the project (below), or by adding it to the top-level entirely.

```yaml title="<project>/project.yml"
tasks:
  lint:
    args:
      - '--ext'
      - '.js,.ts,.vue'
```

### TypeScript integration

Vue does not use [TypeScript](./typescript)'s `tsc` binary directly, but instead uses
[`vue-tsc`](https://vuejs.org/guide/typescript/overview.html), which is a thin wrapper around `tsc`
to support Vue components. Because of this, we should update the `typecheck` task in the project to
utilize this command instead.

```yaml title="<project>/project.yml"
workspace:
	inheritedTasks:
		exclude: [typecheck]

tasks:
	typecheck:
		command: 'vue-tsc'
		args: '--noEmit'
		inputs:
			- 'env.d.ts'
			# Source and test files
			- 'src/**/*'
			- 'tests/**/*'
			# Project configs
			- 'tsconfig.json'
			- 'tsconfig.*.json'
			# Root configs (extended from only)
			- '/tsconfig.options.json'
```

> Be sure `tsconfig.json` compiler options are based on
> [`@vue/tsconfig`](https://vuejs.org/guide/typescript/overview.html#configuring-tsconfig-json).
