website/docs/config/global-project.mdx, before:

---
title: .moon/project.yml
---

The `.moon/project.yml` file configures file groups and tasks that are inherited by _every_ project
in the workspace. Projects can override or merge with these settings within their respective
[`project.yml`](./project).

## `fileGroups`

> `Record<string, string[]>`

> For more information on file group configuration, refer to the
> [`fileGroups`](./project#filegroups) section in the [`project.yml`](./project) doc.

As mentioned in the link above, file groups are a mechanism for grouping similar types of files
within a project using file glob patterns or literal file paths. File groups defined here enables
enforcement of organizational patterns and file locations.

For example, encourage all projects to place source files in a `src` folder, and all test files in
`tests`.

```yaml title=".moon/project.yml"
fileGroups:
  configs:
    - '*.{js,json}'
  sources:
    - 'src/**/*'
    - 'types/**/*'
  tests:
    - 'tests/**/*.test.*'
    - '**/__tests__/**/*'
  assets:
    - 'assets/**/*'
    - 'images/**/*'
    - 'static/**/*'
    - '**/*.{scss,css}'
    - '**/*'
```

> Relative file paths and globs used within a file group are relative from the inherited project's
> root, and not the workspace.

## `tasks`

> `Record<string, TaskConfig>`

> For more information on task configuration, refer to the [`tasks`](./project#tasks) section in the
> [`project.yml`](./project) doc.

As mentioned in the link above, [tasks](../concepts/task) are actions that are ran within the
context of a project, and commonly wrap an npm binary or system command. For most workspaces, every
project _should_ have linting, type-checking, testing, code formatting, so on and so forth. To
reduce the amount of boilerplate that _every_ project would require, this setting offers the ability
to define tasks that are inherited by all projects within the workspace, but can also be overridden
per project.

```yaml title=".moon/project.yml"
tasks:
  format:
    command: 'prettier'
    args: '--check .'

  lint:
    command: 'eslint'
    args: '--no-error-on-unmatched-pattern .'

  test:
    command: 'jest'
    args: '--passWithNoTests .'

  typecheck:
    command: 'tsc'
    args: '--build'
```

> Relative file paths and globs used within a task are relative from the inherited project's root,
> and not the workspace.

Commit message:

new: Migrate to `wax` for better glob support. (#105)
* Move wax to utils.

* Move utils.

* Remove glob walk.

* Remove globset.

* Fix deps.

* More globset work.

* Add file group docs.

* Add file pattern docs.

* Bump versions.

* Test windows.

* Better git handling.

* Fix windows prefix strip.

* Use standardize.

* Move wax to utils.

* Move utils.

* Remove glob walk.

* Remove globset.

* Fix deps.

* More globset work.

* Add file group docs.

* Add file pattern docs.

* Bump versions.

* Test windows.

* Better git handling.

* Fix windows prefix strip.

* Use standardize.

* Bubble errors.

* Debug hash.

* Keep drive around.

* Revert "Keep drive around."

This reverts commit 55c383894352fc2c0a37a4c05573b343bf9636be.

* Use double star.

* Update test.

website/docs/config/global-project.mdx, after:

---
title: .moon/project.yml
---

The `.moon/project.yml` file configures file groups and tasks that are inherited by _every_ project
in the workspace. Projects can override or merge with these settings within their respective
[`project.yml`](./project).

## `fileGroups`

> `Record<string, string[]>`

> For more information on file group configuration, refer to the
> [`fileGroups`](./project#filegroups) section in the [`project.yml`](./project) doc.

Defines [file groups](../concepts/file-group) that will be inherited by all projects, and also
enables enforcement of organizational patterns and file locations. For example, encourage all
projects to place source files in a `src` folder, and all test files in `tests`.

```yaml title=".moon/project.yml"
fileGroups:
  configs:
    - '*.config.{js,cjs,mjs}'
    - '*.json'
  sources:
    - 'src/**/*'
    - 'types/**/*'
  tests:
    - 'tests/**/*'
    - '**/__tests__/**/*'
  assets:
    - 'assets/**/*'
    - 'images/**/*'
    - 'static/**/*'
    - '**/*.{scss,css}'
```

> File paths and globs used within a file group are relative from the inherited project's root, and
> not the workspace.

## `tasks`

> `Record<string, TaskConfig>`

> For more information on task configuration, refer to the [`tasks`](./project#tasks) section in the
> [`project.yml`](./project) doc.

As mentioned in the link above, [tasks](../concepts/task) are actions that are ran within the
context of a project, and commonly wrap an npm binary or system command. For most workspaces, every
project _should_ have linting, type-checking, testing, code formatting, so on and so forth. To
reduce the amount of boilerplate that _every_ project would require, this setting offers the ability
to define tasks that are inherited by all projects within the workspace, but can also be overridden
per project.

```yaml title=".moon/project.yml"
tasks:
  format:
    command: 'prettier'
    args: '--check .'

  lint:
    command: 'eslint'
    args: '--no-error-on-unmatched-pattern .'

  test:
    command: 'jest'
    args: '--passWithNoTests'

  typecheck:
    command: 'tsc'
    args: '--build'
```

> Relative file paths and globs used within a task are relative from the inherited project's root,
> and not the workspace.
