website/docs/config/tasks.mdx, before:

---
title: .moon/tasks.yml
---

import HeadingApiLink from '@site/src/components/Docs/HeadingApiLink';
import VersionLabel from '@site/src/components/Docs/VersionLabel';

The `.moon/tasks.yml` file (formerly `.moon/project.yml`) configures file groups and tasks that are
inherited by _every_ project in the workspace. Projects can override or merge with these settings
within their respective [`moon.yml`](./project). This file is _optional_.

```yaml title=".moon/tasks.yml"
$schema: 'https://moonrepo.dev/schemas/tasks.json'
```

## `extends`<VersionLabel version="0.4" />

<HeadingApiLink to="/api/types/interface/InheritedTasksConfig#extends" />

Defines an external `.moon/tasks.yml` to extend and inherit settings from. Perfect for reusability
and sharing configuration across repositories and projects. When defined, this setting must be an
HTTPS URL _or_ relative file system path that points to a valid YAML document!

```yaml title=".moon/tasks.yml" {1}
extends: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/organization/repository/master/.moon/tasks.yml'
```

:::caution

For map-based settings, `fileGroups` and `tasks`, entries from both the extended configuration and
local configuration are merged into a new map, with the values of the local taking precedence. Map
values _are not_ deep merged!

:::

## `fileGroups`

<HeadingApiLink to="/api/types/interface/InheritedTasksConfig#fileGroups" />

> For more information on file group configuration, refer to the
> [`fileGroups`](./project#filegroups) section in the [`moon.yml`](./project) doc.

Defines [file groups](../concepts/file-group) that will be inherited by all projects, and also
enables enforcement of organizational patterns and file locations. For example, encourage all
projects to place source files in a `src` folder, and all test files in `tests`.

```yaml title=".moon/tasks.yml"
fileGroups:
  configs:
    - '*.config.{js,cjs,mjs}'
    - '*.json'
  sources:
    - 'src/**/*'
    - 'types/**/*'
  tests:
    - 'tests/**/*'
    - '**/__tests__/**/*'
  assets:
    - 'assets/**/*'
    - 'images/**/*'
    - 'static/**/*'
    - '**/*.{scss,css}'
```

> File paths and globs used within a file group are relative from the inherited project's root, and
> not the workspace.

### `implicitDeps`<VersionLabel version="0.23" />

<HeadingApiLink to="/api/types/interface/InheritedTasksConfig#implicitDeps" />

Defines task [`deps`](./project#deps) that are implicitly inherited by _all_ tasks within the
workspace. This is extremely useful for pre-building projects that are used extensively throughout
the repo, or always building project dependencies. Defaults to an empty list.

```yaml title=".moon/tasks.yml" {1-2}
implicitDeps:
  - '^:build'
```

### `implicitInputs`<VersionLabel version="0.23" />

<HeadingApiLink to="/api/types/interface/InheritedTasksConfig#implicitInputs" />

Defines task [`inputs`](./project#inputs) that are implicitly inherited by _all_ tasks within the
workspace. This is extremely useful for the "changes to these files should always trigger a task"
scenario.

Like `inputs`, file paths/globs defined here are relative from the inheriting project.
[Project and workspace relative file patterns](../concepts/file-pattern#project-relative) are
supported and encouraged.

```yaml title=".moon/workspace.yml" {1-2}
implicitInputs:
  - 'package.json'
```

## `tasks`

<HeadingApiLink to="/api/types/interface/InheritedTasksConfig#tasks" />

> For more information on task configuration, refer to the [`tasks`](./project#tasks) section in the
> [`moon.yml`](./project) doc.

As mentioned in the link above, [tasks](../concepts/task) are actions that are ran within the
context of a project, and commonly wrap an npm binary or system command. For most workspaces, every
project _should_ have linting, typechecking, testing, code formatting, so on and so forth. To reduce
the amount of boilerplate that _every_ project would require, this setting offers the ability to
define tasks that are inherited by all projects within the workspace, but can also be overridden per
project.

```yaml title=".moon/tasks.yml"
tasks:
  format:
    command: 'prettier --check .'

  lint:
    command: 'eslint --no-error-on-unmatched-pattern .'

  test:
    command: 'jest --passWithNoTests'

  typecheck:
    command: 'tsc --build'
```

> Relative file paths and globs used within a task are relative from the inherited project's root,
> and not the workspace.

Commit message:

new: Implement new task inheritance model. (#563)
* Start on manager.

* Update impl.

* Fix tests.

* Start on tests.

* Fix tests.

* Start on docs.

* Add more tests.

* Add blog post.

* Clean up inputs.

* Add more tests.

* Bump types.

website/docs/config/tasks.mdx, after:

---
title: .moon/tasks.yml, .moon/tasks/*.yml
sidebar_label: .moon/tasks...
---

import HeadingApiLink from '@site/src/components/Docs/HeadingApiLink';
import VersionLabel from '@site/src/components/Docs/VersionLabel';

The `.moon/tasks.yml` file configures file groups and tasks that are inherited by _every_ project in
the workspace, while `.moon/tasks/*.yml` configures for projects based on their language or type.
[Learn more about task inheritance!](../concepts/task#inheritance)

Projects can override or merge with these settings within their respective [`moon.yml`](./project).

```yaml title=".moon/tasks.yml"
$schema: 'https://moonrepo.dev/schemas/tasks.json'
```

## `extends`<VersionLabel version="0.4" />

<HeadingApiLink to="/api/types/interface/InheritedTasksConfig#extends" />

Defines an external `.moon/tasks.yml` to extend and inherit settings from. Perfect for reusability
and sharing configuration across repositories and projects. When defined, this setting must be an
HTTPS URL _or_ relative file system path that points to a valid YAML document!

```yaml title=".moon/tasks.yml" {1}
extends: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/organization/repository/master/.moon/tasks.yml'
```

:::caution

For map-based settings, `fileGroups` and `tasks`, entries from both the extended configuration and
local configuration are merged into a new map, with the values of the local taking precedence. Map
values _are not_ deep merged!

:::

## `fileGroups`

<HeadingApiLink to="/api/types/interface/InheritedTasksConfig#fileGroups" />

> For more information on file group configuration, refer to the
> [`fileGroups`](./project#filegroups) section in the [`moon.yml`](./project) doc.

Defines [file groups](../concepts/file-group) that will be inherited by projects, and also enables
enforcement of organizational patterns and file locations. For example, encourage projects to place
source files in a `src` folder, and all test files in `tests`.

```yaml title=".moon/tasks.yml"
fileGroups:
  configs:
    - '*.config.{js,cjs,mjs}'
    - '*.json'
  sources:
    - 'src/**/*'
    - 'types/**/*'
  tests:
    - 'tests/**/*'
    - '**/__tests__/**/*'
  assets:
    - 'assets/**/*'
    - 'images/**/*'
    - 'static/**/*'
    - '**/*.{scss,css}'
```

> File paths and globs used within a file group are relative from the inherited project's root, and
> not the workspace.

## `implicitDeps`<VersionLabel version="0.23" />

<HeadingApiLink to="/api/types/interface/InheritedTasksConfig#implicitDeps" />

Defines task [`deps`](./project#deps) that are implicitly inserted into _all_ inherited tasks within
a project. This is extremely useful for pre-building projects that are used extensively throughout
the repo, or always building project dependencies. Defaults to an empty list.

```yaml title=".moon/tasks.yml" {1-2}
implicitDeps:
  - '^:build'
```

## `implicitInputs`<VersionLabel version="0.23" />

<HeadingApiLink to="/api/types/interface/InheritedTasksConfig#implicitInputs" />

Defines task [`inputs`](./project#inputs) that are implicitly inserted into _all_ inherited tasks
within a project. This is extremely useful for the "changes to these files should always trigger a
task" scenario.

Like `inputs`, file paths/globs defined here are relative from the inheriting project.
[Project and workspace relative file patterns](../concepts/file-pattern#project-relative) are
supported and encouraged.

```yaml title=".moon/tasks/node.yml" {1-2}
implicitInputs:
  - 'package.json'
```

## `tasks`

<HeadingApiLink to="/api/types/interface/InheritedTasksConfig#tasks" />

> For more information on task configuration, refer to the [`tasks`](./project#tasks) section in the
> [`moon.yml`](./project) doc.

As mentioned in the link above, [tasks](../concepts/task) are actions that are ran within the
context of a project, and commonly wrap a system command. For most workspaces, every project
_should_ have linting, typechecking, testing, code formatting, so on and so forth. To reduce the
amount of boilerplate that _every_ project would require, this setting offers the ability to define
tasks that are inherited by many projects within the workspace, but can also be overridden per
project.

```yaml title=".moon/tasks.yml"
tasks:
  format:
    command: 'prettier --check .'

  lint:
    command: 'eslint --no-error-on-unmatched-pattern .'

  test:
    command: 'jest --passWithNoTests'

  typecheck:
    command: 'tsc --build'
```

> Relative file paths and globs used within a task are relative from the inherited project's root,
> and not the workspace.
