website/docs/guides/ci.mdx, before:

---
title: Continuous integration (CI)
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Image from '@site/src/components/Image';

All companies and projects rely on continuous integration (CI) to ensure high quality code and to
avoid regressions. Because this is such a critical piece of every developer's workflow, we wanted to
support it as a first-class feature within moon, and we do just that with the
[`moon ci`](../commands/ci) command.

## How it works

The `ci` command does all the heavy lifting necessary for effectively running jobs. It achieves this
by automatically running the following steps:

- Determines touched files by comparing the current HEAD against a base.
- Determines all [targets](../concepts/target) that need to run based on touched files.
- Additionally runs affected [targets](../concepts/target) dependencies _and_ dependents.
- Generates an action and dependency graph.
- Installs the toolchain, Node.js, and npm dependencies.
- Runs all actions within the graph using a thread pool.
- Displays stats about all passing, failed, and invalid actions.

## Configuring tasks

By default, _all tasks_ run in CI, as you should always be building, linting, typechecking, testing,
so on and so forth. However, this isn't always true, so this can be disabled on a per-task basis
through the [`runInCI`](../config/project#runinci) or [`local`](../config/project#local) options.

```yaml
tasks:
  dev:
    command: 'webpack server'
    options:
      runInCI: false
    # Or
    local: true
```

:::caution

This option _must_ be set to false for tasks that spawn a long-running or never-ending process, like
HTTP or development servers. To help mitigate this, tasks named `dev`, `start`, or `serve` are false
by default. This can be easily controlled with the [`local`](../config/project#local) setting.

:::

## Integrating

Although moon has an [integrated toolchain](../concepts/toolchain), we still require Node.js and
dependencies to be installed _beforehand_, as moon is currently shipped as an
[npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@moonrepo/cli). This is unfortunate and we're looking
into other distribution channels.

With that being said, the following examples can be referenced for setting up moon and its CI
workflow in popular services. The examples assume a
[package script named `moon`](../install#adding-a-package-script) and are using Yarn 3, but feel
free to replace with your chosen setup.

<Tabs groupId="ci-env">
<TabItem value="github" label="GitHub">

```yaml title=".github/workflows/ci.yml"
name: 'Pipeline'
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - 'master'
  pull_request:
jobs:
  ci:
    name: 'CI'
    runs-on: 'ubuntu-latest'
    steps:
      - uses: 'actions/checkout@v3'
        with:
          fetch-depth: 0
      - uses: 'actions/setup-node@v3'
        with:
          cache: 'yarn'
      - run: 'yarn install --immutable'
      - run: 'yarn moon ci'
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="buildkite" label="Buildkite">

```yaml title=".buildkite/pipeline.yml"
steps:
  - label: 'CI'
    commands:
      - 'yarn install --immutable'
      - 'yarn moon ci'
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="circleci" label="CircleCI">

```yaml title=".circleci/config.yml"
version: 2.1
orbs:
  node: 'circleci/node@5.0.2'
jobs:
  ci:
    docker:
      - image: 'cimg/base:stable'
    steps:
      - checkout
      - node/install:
          install-yarn: true
          node-version: '16.13'
      - node/install-packages:
          check-cache: 'always'
          pkg-manager: 'yarn-berry'
      - run: 'yarn moon ci'
workflows:
  pipeline:
    jobs:
      - 'ci'
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="travisci" label="TravisCI">

```yaml title=".travis.yml"
language: node_js
node_js:
  - 16
cache: yarn
script: 'moon ci'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Comparing revisions

By default the command will compare the current HEAD against a base revision, which is typically the
configured [`vcs.defaultBranch`](../config/workspace#defaultbranch) (master, main, trunk, etc). Both
of these can be customized with the `--base` and `--head` options respectively.

```shell
$ moon ci --base <BRANCH> --head <SHA>
```

## Parallelizing tasks

If your CI environment supports sharding across multiple jobs, then you can utilize moon's built in
parallelism by passing `--jobTotal` and `--job` options. The `--jobTotal` option is an integer of
the total number of jobs available, and `--job` is the current index (0 based) amongst the total.

When these options are passed, moon will only run affected [targets](../concepts/target) based on
the current job slice.

<Tabs groupId="ci-env">
<TabItem value="github" label="GitHub">

GitHub Actions do not support native parallelism, but it can be emulated using it's matrix.

```yaml title=".github/workflows/ci.yml"
# ...
jobs:
  ci:
    # ...
    strategy:
      matrix:
        index: [0, 1]
    steps:
      # ...
      - run: 'yarn moon ci --job ${{ matrix.index }} --jobTotal 2'
```

- [Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-jobs/using-a-matrix-for-your-jobs)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="buildkite" label="Buildkite">

```yaml title=".buildkite/pipeline.yml"
# ...
steps:
  - label: 'CI'
    parallelism: 10
    commands:
      # ...
      - 'yarn moon ci --job $$BUILDKITE_PARALLEL_JOB --jobTotal $$BUILDKITE_PARALLEL_JOB_COUNT'
```

- [Documentation](https://buildkite.com/docs/tutorials/parallel-builds#parallel-jobs)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="circleci" label="CircleCI">

```yaml title=".circleci/config.yml"
# ...
jobs:
  ci:
    # ...
    parallelism: 10
    steps:
      # ...
      - run: 'yarn moon ci --job $CIRCLE_NODE_INDEX --jobTotal $CIRCLE_NODE_TOTAL'
```

- [Documentation](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/parallelism-faster-jobs/)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="travisci" label="TravisCI">

TravisCI does not support native parallelism, but it can be emulated using it's matrix.

```yaml title=".travis.yml"
# ...
env:
  global:
    - TRAVIS_JOB_TOTAL=2
  jobs:
    - TRAVIS_JOB_INDEX=0
    - TRAVIS_JOB_INDEX=1
script: 'moon ci --job $TRAVIS_JOB_INDEX --jobTotal $TRAVIS_JOB_TOTAL'
```

- [Documentation](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/speeding-up-the-build/)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> Your CI environment may provide environment variables for these 2 values.

## Reporting run results

If you're using GitHub Actions as your CI provider, we suggest using our
[`moonrepo/run-report-action`](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/moon-ci-run-reports). This
action will report the results of a [`moon ci`](../commands/ci) run to a pull request as a comment
and workflow summary.

```yaml title=".github/workflows/ci.yml"
# ...
jobs:
  ci:
    name: 'CI'
    runs-on: 'ubuntu-latest'
    steps:
      # ...
      - run: 'yarn moon ci'
      - uses: 'moonrepo/run-report-action@v1'
        if: success() || failure()
        with:
          access-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

The report looks something like the following:

<Image src={require('../../static/img/github/run-report.png')} width="60%" />

Commit message:

docs: Add moonbase blurbs. (#627)
* Update pricing.

* Add blurb.

* Change prices.

website/docs/guides/ci.mdx, after:

---
title: Continuous integration (CI)
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Image from '@site/src/components/Image';

All companies and projects rely on continuous integration (CI) to ensure high quality code and to
avoid regressions. Because this is such a critical piece of every developer's workflow, we wanted to
support it as a first-class feature within moon, and we do just that with the
[`moon ci`](../commands/ci) command.

## How it works

The `ci` command does all the heavy lifting necessary for effectively running jobs. It achieves this
by automatically running the following steps:

- Determines touched files by comparing the current HEAD against a base.
- Determines all [targets](../concepts/target) that need to run based on touched files.
- Additionally runs affected [targets](../concepts/target) dependencies _and_ dependents.
- Generates an action and dependency graph.
- Installs the toolchain, Node.js, and npm dependencies.
- Runs all actions within the graph using a thread pool.
- Displays stats about all passing, failed, and invalid actions.

## Configuring tasks

By default, _all tasks_ run in CI, as you should always be building, linting, typechecking, testing,
so on and so forth. However, this isn't always true, so this can be disabled on a per-task basis
through the [`runInCI`](../config/project#runinci) or [`local`](../config/project#local) options.

```yaml
tasks:
  dev:
    command: 'webpack server'
    options:
      runInCI: false
    # Or
    local: true
```

:::caution

This option _must_ be set to false for tasks that spawn a long-running or never-ending process, like
HTTP or development servers. To help mitigate this, tasks named `dev`, `start`, or `serve` are false
by default. This can be easily controlled with the [`local`](../config/project#local) setting.

:::

## Integrating

Although moon has an [integrated toolchain](../concepts/toolchain), we still require Node.js and
dependencies to be installed _beforehand_, as moon is currently shipped as an
[npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@moonrepo/cli). This is unfortunate and we're looking
into other distribution channels.

With that being said, the following examples can be referenced for setting up moon and its CI
workflow in popular services. The examples assume a
[package script named `moon`](../install#adding-a-package-script) and are using Yarn 3, but feel
free to replace with your chosen setup.

<Tabs groupId="ci-env">
<TabItem value="github" label="GitHub">

```yaml title=".github/workflows/ci.yml"
name: 'Pipeline'
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - 'master'
  pull_request:
jobs:
  ci:
    name: 'CI'
    runs-on: 'ubuntu-latest'
    steps:
      - uses: 'actions/checkout@v3'
        with:
          fetch-depth: 0
      - uses: 'actions/setup-node@v3'
        with:
          cache: 'yarn'
      - run: 'yarn install --immutable'
      - run: 'yarn moon ci'
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="buildkite" label="Buildkite">

```yaml title=".buildkite/pipeline.yml"
steps:
  - label: 'CI'
    commands:
      - 'yarn install --immutable'
      - 'yarn moon ci'
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="circleci" label="CircleCI">

```yaml title=".circleci/config.yml"
version: 2.1
orbs:
  node: 'circleci/node@5.0.2'
jobs:
  ci:
    docker:
      - image: 'cimg/base:stable'
    steps:
      - checkout
      - node/install:
          install-yarn: true
          node-version: '16.13'
      - node/install-packages:
          check-cache: 'always'
          pkg-manager: 'yarn-berry'
      - run: 'yarn moon ci'
workflows:
  pipeline:
    jobs:
      - 'ci'
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="travisci" label="TravisCI">

```yaml title=".travis.yml"
language: node_js
node_js:
  - 16
cache: yarn
script: 'moon ci'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Comparing revisions

By default the command will compare the current HEAD against a base revision, which is typically the
configured [`vcs.defaultBranch`](../config/workspace#defaultbranch) (master, main, trunk, etc). Both
of these can be customized with the `--base` and `--head` options respectively.

```shell
$ moon ci --base <BRANCH> --head <SHA>
```

## Parallelizing tasks

If your CI environment supports sharding across multiple jobs, then you can utilize moon's built in
parallelism by passing `--jobTotal` and `--job` options. The `--jobTotal` option is an integer of
the total number of jobs available, and `--job` is the current index (0 based) amongst the total.

When these options are passed, moon will only run affected [targets](../concepts/target) based on
the current job slice.

<Tabs groupId="ci-env">
<TabItem value="github" label="GitHub">

GitHub Actions do not support native parallelism, but it can be emulated using it's matrix.

```yaml title=".github/workflows/ci.yml"
# ...
jobs:
  ci:
    # ...
    strategy:
      matrix:
        index: [0, 1]
    steps:
      # ...
      - run: 'yarn moon ci --job ${{ matrix.index }} --jobTotal 2'
```

- [Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-jobs/using-a-matrix-for-your-jobs)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="buildkite" label="Buildkite">

```yaml title=".buildkite/pipeline.yml"
# ...
steps:
  - label: 'CI'
    parallelism: 10
    commands:
      # ...
      - 'yarn moon ci --job $$BUILDKITE_PARALLEL_JOB --jobTotal $$BUILDKITE_PARALLEL_JOB_COUNT'
```

- [Documentation](https://buildkite.com/docs/tutorials/parallel-builds#parallel-jobs)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="circleci" label="CircleCI">

```yaml title=".circleci/config.yml"
# ...
jobs:
  ci:
    # ...
    parallelism: 10
    steps:
      # ...
      - run: 'yarn moon ci --job $CIRCLE_NODE_INDEX --jobTotal $CIRCLE_NODE_TOTAL'
```

- [Documentation](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/parallelism-faster-jobs/)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="travisci" label="TravisCI">

TravisCI does not support native parallelism, but it can be emulated using it's matrix.

```yaml title=".travis.yml"
# ...
env:
  global:
    - TRAVIS_JOB_TOTAL=2
  jobs:
    - TRAVIS_JOB_INDEX=0
    - TRAVIS_JOB_INDEX=1
script: 'moon ci --job $TRAVIS_JOB_INDEX --jobTotal $TRAVIS_JOB_TOTAL'
```

- [Documentation](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/speeding-up-the-build/)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> Your CI environment may provide environment variables for these 2 values.

## Caching artifacts

When a CI pipeline reaches a certain scale, its run times increase, tasks are unnecessarily ran, and
build artifacts are not shared. To combat this, we support [remote caching](./remote-cache), a
mechanism where we store build artifacts in the cloud, and sync these artifacts to machines on
demand.

:::info

Remote caching is powered by our [moonbase service](/moonbase). Start using today for free!

:::

## Reporting run results

If you're using GitHub Actions as your CI provider, we suggest using our
[`moonrepo/run-report-action`](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/moon-ci-run-reports). This
action will report the results of a [`moon ci`](../commands/ci) run to a pull request as a comment
and workflow summary.

```yaml title=".github/workflows/ci.yml"
# ...
jobs:
  ci:
    name: 'CI'
    runs-on: 'ubuntu-latest'
    steps:
      # ...
      - run: 'yarn moon ci'
      - uses: 'moonrepo/run-report-action@v1'
        if: success() || failure()
        with:
          access-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

The report looks something like the following:

<Image src={require('../../static/img/github/run-report.png')} width="60%" />
