docs/roadmap.md, before:

# 0.1.0

- [ ] website
  - [ ] getting started

## Targets

- [x] macos x64
- [x] linux x64 (gnu)
- [x] windows x64

## Projects

- [x] Can define metadata
- [x] File groups
  - [x] Configure in `project.yml`
  - [x] Deep overrides with global `project.yml`
- [x] Tasks
  - [x] Configure in `project.yml`
  - [x] Deep merges with global `project.yml`
  - [x] Supports merge strategies
- [x] Checks if affected based in a file list
- [x] Lazy loads `package.json`
- [x] Lazy loads `tsconfig.json`

## Project graph

- [x] Lazy load projects when needed
- [x] Get direct dependencies
- [x] Get direct dependents

## Tasks

- [x] Command (and type)
- [x] Args
- [x] Inputs
  - [x] Checks if affected based in a file list
  - [x] Globs
  - [x] Relative paths
  - [x] Workspace relative paths
- [x] Outputs
  - [x] Write outputs to `.moon/out`
  - [x] Symlink/copy outputs back to project dir
- [x] Dependencies (on other tasks)
- [x] Environment vars
- [x] Tokens
  - [x] Expands tokens defined in configs
- [x] Can run from project root or workspace root (using `run_from_workspace_root`)

## Task runner

- [x] Sorts dep graph topologically
  - [x] Groups into batches and parallelizes
  - [x] Runs in a thread pool (via tokio)
- [x] Runs task based on `type`
- [x] Retries when failed (using `retry_count`)
- [x] Streams output when a primary target
- [x] Buffers output when a non-primary target
- [x] Bubbles up errors
- [x] Installs npm dependencies
- [x] Syncs `package.json` and `tsconfig.json` for all projects
  - [x] Writes JSON preserving field order

## CLI

- [x] `init` command to scafflold a new project
- [x] `project` command for displaying info
- [x] `project-graph` command for outputting DOT format
- [x] `setup` command for installing tools
- [x] `teardown` command for uninstalling tools
- [x] `bin` command to return tool paths
- [x] `run` command to run targets
  - [x] Args after `--` are passed to the underlying command
  - [x] Only run on affected changes
- [x] `ci` command for smart running affected targets (below)

## CI

- [x] Compares PR against default branch
- [x] Runs tasks if `outputs` defined or `run_in_ci` is true
- [x] Runs dependencies AND dependents

# 0.2.0

- hashing
- caching

## Targets

- [ ] macos arm/m1
- [ ] linux x64 (musl)

## Tasks

- [ ] Self referencing targets (`~`)
- [ ] Deps referencing targets (`^`)
- [ ] Add `@cache` token

## Task runner

- [ ] Add a debug layer so that the node processes can be inspected

## CLI

- [ ] `run`
  - [ ] All projects for target (`*`)
- [ ] `graph`
  - [ ] Spin up an interactive website with full project/task data

Commit message:

new: Implement experimental hashing. (#76)
* Start on hasher.

* Add hashing to vcs.

* Integrate into tasks.

* Change cache paths.

* Write hasher file.

* Update runner.

* Rework labels.

* Add input files to hasher.

* Rename method.

* Fix separators.

* Cleanup.

* Support input globs.

* Add skipped status.

* Add docs.

* Fix output label.

* Fix windows issue.

* Add tests.

docs/roadmap.md, after:

# 0.1.0

- [ ] website
  - [ ] getting started

## Targets

- [x] macos x64
- [x] linux x64 (gnu)
- [x] windows x64

## Projects

- [x] Can define metadata
- [x] File groups
  - [x] Configure in `project.yml`
  - [x] Deep overrides with global `project.yml`
- [x] Tasks
  - [x] Configure in `project.yml`
  - [x] Deep merges with global `project.yml`
  - [x] Supports merge strategies
- [x] Checks if affected based in a file list
- [x] Lazy loads `package.json`
- [x] Lazy loads `tsconfig.json`

## Project graph

- [x] Lazy load projects when needed
- [x] Get direct dependencies
- [x] Get direct dependents

## Tasks

- [x] Command (and type)
- [x] Args
- [x] Inputs
  - [x] Checks if affected based in a file list
  - [x] Globs
  - [x] Relative paths
  - [x] Workspace relative paths
- [x] Outputs
  - [x] Write outputs to `.moon/cache/out`
  - [x] Symlink/copy outputs back to project dir
- [x] Dependencies (on other tasks)
- [x] Environment vars
- [x] Tokens
  - [x] Expands tokens defined in configs
- [x] Can run from project root or workspace root (using `run_from_workspace_root`)

## Task runner

- [x] Sorts dep graph topologically
  - [x] Groups into batches and parallelizes
  - [x] Runs in a thread pool (via tokio)
- [x] Runs task based on `type`
- [x] Retries when failed (using `retry_count`)
- [x] Streams output when a primary target
- [x] Buffers output when a non-primary target
- [x] Bubbles up errors
- [x] Installs npm dependencies
- [x] Syncs `package.json` and `tsconfig.json` for all projects
  - [x] Writes JSON preserving field order
- [ ] Handle non-0 exit codes

## CLI

- [x] `init` command to scafflold a new project
- [x] `project` command for displaying info
- [x] `project-graph` command for outputting DOT format
- [x] `setup` command for installing tools
- [x] `teardown` command for uninstalling tools
- [x] `bin` command to return tool paths
- [x] `run` command to run targets
  - [x] Args after `--` are passed to the underlying command
  - [x] Only run on affected changes
- [x] `ci` command for smart running affected targets (below)

## CI

- [x] Compares PR against default branch
- [x] Runs tasks if `outputs` defined or `run_in_ci` is true
- [x] Runs dependencies AND dependents

## Cache

- [ ] add a `--no-cache` option to disable all caching
- [ ] hashing
  - [ ] use `stdin` for commands that take long arguments
  - [ ] dont load `package.json`/`tsconfig.json` so much
  - [x] delete old hashes when the hash changes
  - [ ] ignore hashes for files that are gitignored
  - [ ] include local file changes in hash

# 0.2.0

## Targets

- [ ] macos arm/m1
- [ ] linux x64 (musl)

## Tasks

- [ ] Self referencing targets (`~`)
- [ ] Deps referencing targets (`^`)
- [ ] Add `@cache` token

## Task runner

- [ ] Add a debug layer so that the node processes can be inspected

## CLI

- [ ] `run`
  - [ ] All projects for target (`*`)
- [ ] `graph`
  - [ ] Spin up an interactive website with full project/task data
